Mims, one of the biggest stories this
year is tariffs. And we've got a guy
today who's in the front lines of
figuring out this complicated matter.
And I'm so excited that we get to bring
him to listeners because he's in a
company that I really didn't even know
existed. And I certainly didn't
understand they were as big as they are.
They have basically as many employees as
General Motors. Magna International is a
big name in Canada. It is a big name in
the automotive industry. The largest
North American automotive supplier out
there. Huge business in the US, huge
business in North America, huge business
globally. And we have the CEO. That's
next.
[Music]
Magna International is a powerhouse in
the automotive industry, manufacturing
the parts that go into cars all around
the world. Its clients are the car
companies or OEMs. To serve them, Magna
has 342 manufacturing operations in 28
countries. All of that means that CEO
Swami Kotakiri has his fingers on the
pulse of global trade and what the trade
war means for a major industry.
>> I would say there is definitely stress
in the system, right? I think uh when we
were dealing with the 2007208
financial crisis or covid and you know
then the whole inflation because of the
Russia Ukraine war and the semiconductor
the one thing we all have come to
understand better is the visibility of
the supply chain right
uh and I think people have taken a
calmer approach now I think nobody is
reacting right way. The automotive
industry is trying to navigate the
latest trade war while at the same time
trying to pivot their businesses to a
more digital world and facing new rivals
from China that are offering up
compelling electric vehicles. As
supplier to those Chinese companies,
Magna is also seeing how they work up
close.
>> How do they design? What is their design
cycle? How are they thinking about it?
And we are able to bring bring some of
those learnings to other parts of the
world. What it adds up to is a very
complicated time to be in the car
business.
>> Because of all these changes, there is
uh a possibility for um new entrance to
be coming in with completely new mode of
thinking. Uh so you add all of that the
what used to be always a complex
industry is now become a
four-dimensional chessboard.
>> From the Wall Street Journal, I'm Tim
Higgins. And I'm Christopher Mims. This
is Bold Names, where you'll hear from
the leaders of the bold named companies
featured in the pages of the Wall Street
Journal. Today we ask, how does one run
a complicated global parts business when
you're stuck between a changing industry
and a trade war?
Swami, welcome. Uh, so much to talk to
you about today, but I think a lot of
people thought we were going to see a
huge spike in new car prices because of
all the tariffs announced by the Trump
administration this past spring. Why
hasn't that occurred yet?
>> Yeah, I I think the best thing is not to
have a knee-jerk reaction to anything.
And this was one of that instance where
things have obviously moved a lot from
where the conversation first started in
January to where we are right. It still
remains to be seen but if you kind of
summarize where we stand with the slight
change in the US MCA
and there is a progression of that
change happening in the next two years
if it uh stays as uh you know as it is
explained today. All said and done. just
interrupt here because because this is
my role uh this podcast. When you say
USMCA compliance for those of us who
aren't as well voiced in this industry
as you are,
>> you mean getting stuff from Canada and
Mexico, right? Parts, the trade
agreement, this is what replaced NAFTA.
>> Yeah, thank thank you for that
clarification. In in the automotive
world, like anything else, we have so
many acronyms, but very simply stated,
you are right.
Absolutely. And and this is this is
super super confusing, right? Because
earlier this year it looked like just
about every trade partner possible was
going to have um see incredible
increases in tariffs. And that this
spring you had a speech in the Detroit
area where you compared this thread of
uh trade war the automotive industry as
kind of a mix of disruption that was
that we saw during the great recession
that 2007 2010 period and and then the
pandemic um what did you mean by that
and do you still feel that
>> yes I do right I mean if you look at our
normal industry variables we are a
long-term
uh cyclical nature uh uh business over
the last few years. What we have added
to that complexity is the technology
landscape changing which is
electrification, autonomy and
connectivity. And with all of these
things coming into play, uh consumer
preferences have changed, right? Uh they
have much more optionality and they're
also figuring out what it is they really
want.
>> It's not just about horsepower anymore.
>> Absolutely not. Right. And I always give
the story in the past where you know we
used to look at horsepower and the fit
and finish and the style and what is the
projection of your personality which car
speaks of me really uh and now you go
talk to them they say like where is the
Wi-Fi and what is the connectivity and
can I stream my apps and uh you know
there's very few people who sit and talk
about the color of the car and so on. So
>> kids today cars it's like they're the
ultimate phone accessory these days.
Yeah, where's my Android Auto? My Apple
CarPlay.
>> Yes, exactly. Right.
>> It's a place to scroll at stoplights, of
course, until we get the self-driving
ones.
>> Yeah, it's well put, right? And and add
on top of that is the changing industry
landscape, right? Uh because of all
these changes, there is uh a possibility
for um new entrance to be coming in with
completely new mode of thinking. Uh, so
you add all of that, the what used to be
always a complex industry has now become
a four-dimensional chessboard.
>> We're going to talk about new entrance
later on. Um, Tim and I of course
>> are are obsessed with new entrance in
the auto industry,
>> but I want to get high level with you
for a minute because I think in a way
that a lot of people don't appreciate,
you know, you're like the real estate
industry. your supply chains are a
primary indicator of what's going on
with the economy and then you as a
supplier to all these other automakers,
you know, you're the you're odd behind
the curtain here. Um, and and you have a
unique
visibility into all of that. And so when
you're looking at the impact on your
supply chains, what is the state of the
US economy right now through the lens of
people, you know, making their second
biggest purchase after what they spend
on rent.
>> It's a very interesting analogy, right?
And you know what I always like to talk
about when we talk internally even what
we are doing today is a decision that
has been made 2 years ago and the
results will be seen 2 years from now
right as we putting capital in uh it's
for producing vehicles or parts
component systems for vehicles uh that
are going into production in 27 or 28
really Right? And all the sourcing
decisions were made maybe in 22 uh maybe
in 23. Right? So that kind of gives you
the
cycle of decision- making in this
industry. So
if you're thinking about what happens
today and read headlines and the
expectation of the people is so what are
you doing because we heard this in the
newspaper today
not really a whole lot right
that's why I think you have to be
constantly thinking of your strategy in
terms of how do you adapt how do you
accommodate and how do you innovate
and
most of the variables that you consider
is how much can you
be flexible in your strategy.
>> So you're building adaptability into
your that makes sense to me because of
course auto analysts have said recently
the next four years are going to be kind
of the most uncertain it's been in the
auto industry in the past 50 maybe
because of the head fake on EVs. People
not transitioning to EVs as quickly as
they thought. So are you in a sense
trying to make yourself more adaptable
for this uncertain time that's coming?
>> Absolutely. Right. From our perspective,
yes. But I don't think this can be done
by any one individual party. Right. For
example, an a OEM comes with a platform
and
>> OEM being a car company.
>> There you go. Another acronym. Yeah.
Original equipment manufacturer as they
call it.
>> Uh the car company. They come and tell
us uh let's say I'm going to make
100,000 vehicles, right? They're looking
at their crystal ball, looking at their
customer consumer data.
Uh so they come and they give us that
means we have to be able to plan
uh the volume expectations based on the
customer, right? So you put in the
capital, you put in the capacity, you
plan your labor, everything according to
that.
So what it means is if you don't make
100,000 vehicles at that point of time
per year, then you have capacity that's
sitting that's empty, right?
>> Money on fire essentially.
>> Exactly. And there are certain parts of
the capital which you can flex. For
example, if I have a stamping press and
I'm making parts, I take the die out and
I can put a different die and make parts
for something else. But if I have an
assembly line that makes a EV or
assembling things for a system, doesn't
matter whether it's a mirror or a seat
or something, you're supposed to make
100,000. It's not that I can just take
that and make something else with it.
>> So it's just sitting, it's dedicated
capital.
>> I think that's where the flexibility
needs to be thought through. And so the
OEM or the car company and the material
supply everything
it's not easy to flex at the switch
right you you know you come today and
say I just want to make make a change it
takes time
>> but if you think collectively and say
maybe let's plan for 60,000 and if the
demand is there how quickly can we get
there and let's plan through that great
let's share the benefit if it goes down.
How do we change and manage the risk?
>> We just heard Kodigiri talk about the
challenges of the trade war next. How
does he navigate the uncertainty?
How precarious are things right now?
>> It's difficult. I can tell you that. Uh
pit in the stomach sometimes, right? But
uh that's what's gotten us through and I
think that's what you know is very
important for the industry right now.
[Music]
It makes me think when I was in business
school back there in the Detroit area uh
all those years ago and we were using uh
pen and paper and we didn't have
computers and all these fancy
>> I got to say I'm really surprised, Tim.
I thought you went to art school. I
don't know if I'm excited or
disappointed. I I just remember being in
class uh and my classmates uh you know
who were all working at the suppliers. I
mean these were people who had some
horror stories dealing with the the
large car companies. I mean, you know,
talk about having very little leverage,
right? And back then, you know, there
were winners and losers on these car
programs, right? You were kind of making
a bet years in advance. The volumes
might fluctuate, but the fluctuation
maybe was 10 or 20%, right? What what's
the fluctuation rate right now?
>> When the
car company gives us a volume
expectations, we have our own viewpoint,
right? And this this viewpoint has been
built on data from the past years. So
the challenge now becomes when you have
a platform that's new, right? Uh it's a
new EVA
vehicle, right?
>> So there I think we're all kind of
playing a little bit of a guessing game
here. We have seen some platforms where
the current projections or the current
production volumes are running at 30% of
the original planning volume.
>> 30%. Yeah.
>> And obviously you can't name names here
but we could all guess.
>> There's there's good and bad right
there. There are some which have done
well. the things have been there all
along and it's just you know become a
lot more difficult and when the volume
fluctuations are that high I think the
industry knows how to deal with 10 15
20% right so I think that's where this
whole friction of commercial recoveries
come into play market share is more
fragmented and as you know automotive
industry is all about scale and
efficiency right
>> right
>> so I I think that is the magnitude and
the crux crux of the problem that we're
all trying to deal with.
>> I mean, it's it's pretty bleak out
there, which is, you know, in that
environment. Um, you know, we're seeing
auto parts giant Morelli recently filed
for bankruptcy. Their CEO said in some
court filings that, uh, they had been
really struggling since CO 19 um,
pandemic. Um, but that the weight of the
Trump administration tariffs really kind
of pushed them over the edge. you have a
visibility
into the supply chain a because you've
got a bunch of smaller companies
providing you uh materials and parts and
whatnot that you then package and put
together and build and put into sell to
car companies. So you you can see where
there's tension out there. Are you
worried about more suppliers going out
of business? I mean how precarious are
things right now?
>> Tim, I would say there is definitely
stress in the system, right? I think uh
when we were dealing with the 2007208
financial crisis or COVID and you know
then the whole inflation because of the
Russia Ukraine war and the semiconductor
the one thing we all have come to
understand better is the visibility of
the supply chain right
>> uh and I think people have taken a
calmer approach now I think nobody is
reacting right way and you know the ones
that have survived have learned to
evolve and I'll give our magnet example
a good one about 20 years is the time
frame that I look at right in 2004 2005
Magna was a $20 billion company right
and North America was making 15 million
units interestingly today we still are
about 15 million units and Magna is a
$40 billion company goes back to what I
was saying right you have to think
through the product in terms of being
disciplined to say I'm not going to do
everything for everyone. Here is what
I'm good at. I'm just going to stick to
that. So if you have that disciplined
approach, we can continue to. So you
need to have a strategy and you know not
be reacting to headlines every day. Uh
it's difficult. I can tell you that. Uh
pit in the stomach sometimes, right? But
uh that's what's gotten us through and I
think that's what you know is very
important for the industry right now.
Well, when you talk about that growth,
um, you you you've seen some in in the
US, right? But the industry really has
grown dramatically in the last
generation from China and you've seen
some of that. And then when you talk
about new strategies, that's a place
where we're also seeing new new
strategies. And I have to think the last
time I was in Detroit, which was just a
few months ago,
>> the sense of trepidation about the rise
of Chinese electric car makers just was
just palable. I mean, what is it that
the Chinese automakers are doing so well
that the western automakers haven't yet
adopted or haven't yet figured out?
A few things come to mind, Tim, like if
you didn't have the legacy, right? You
didn't have an assembly shop or a body
shop or a certain way of doing things
and you have installed capacity and you
have a process in place.
uh
you you have a fresh sheet of paper so
you can think through how you would
process uh the manufacturing side of
things. That's one. The second thing I
see when your new organizations are
coming even the organizational
architecture is a little bit different.
What I mean by that is you don't have a
structural engineering department and a
thermal department and a fluids
department and a power department and
when they all come together you have so
many interfaces because you have to at
the end have a holistic system. I I I
give a good example, right? Is 5 10
years ago,
you used to have
mirrors and you used to have cameras and
you used to have, you know, uh
visibility of the inside of the cabin.
Mirrors were sourced by the purchasing
department. Cameras were sourced by the
different department. Each one had a ECU
of its own, right? And
>> ECU being kind of the central computer
for that.
>> Yes.
>> Function.
Thanks for holding me accountable there.
Uh so I think if you think through right
really you can sit back and say okay I
get the image from the camera anyway. Um
I have a you know this electric computer
unit that analyzes the data and puts it
together and my mirror is already there.
Do I need to have two of this or should
I just have one compute? Right. uh and
you know with the change in the compute
with the change in uh the power trains
going to EVs uh with the new electrical
architectures come in place connectivity
playing a big role you know how you're
designing a car is different but more
importantly how you're going to make the
car is also becoming very different
right and if you didn't have the legacy
of an existing assembly plant or so on
you're able to do it very differently
and Chinese have taken advantage antage
of that and and and are moving really
fast.
>> And it's fascinating to see a company
like Xiaomi, right? Not only a Chinese
smartphone manufacturer, but they
partner with many other companies to
make all kinds of home consumer
electronics. Suddenly coming out with a
car that apparently people love.
>> It looks like a Porsche. I mean, it
looks looks pretty neat.
>> Yeah. And the factory itself, the
machine to make the machine, as M said,
is apparently really well designed. As
cars become more and more like consumer
electronics,
um it begs the question,
what is different or the same as
manufacturing consumer electronics in
terms of reshoring that manufacturing?
>> Yeah, there is two aspects of it, right?
Automation where it's needed and where
it's useful is fantastic and it can do a
great job. Uh so that's one piece. The
second part of there are some which are
very difficult to automate at least at
this point of time. Never say never. Uh
for example, you you
uh cut and sew seeds, right?
The dexterity that's required to go make
that process automated,
you know, some ways to go. So that's
labor intensive.
>> I thought that Figure, which of course
is partnering with BMW, already had a
robot that can put away groceries.
Are you telling me these things can't
sew seats?
>> Yeah. You know, when you're talking of
the one question you asked about
consumer electronics and uh and cars, I
I will agree humbly that I'm a dated
automotive guy. But you have to still
keep in mind that when you buy, I think
you mentioned it, right? It's one of the
largest purchase you'll make in your
lifetime. I I don't think you will take
very kindly if it doesn't start or if it
breaks down after 8 months and you need
to go buy a different one. So the
robustness and the reliability and the
safety that goes with uh you know this
product I think is still pretty damn
complex. There is one thing that people
tend to underestimate. But with that
said, we have to learn from the other
industries and there's been phenomenal
progress like you gave the example of
Xiaomi, right? You talk about EVs, it's
really
uh a confluence of three important
things uh which will solve the problem.
A high voltage electrical architecture
like 800 volts or,000 volts. So that
means just the voltage of the power
system in the car where the electricity
is flowing and the battery and this high
voltage means you can charge the car
faster and all that stuff.
>> There you go. You got it. That's I I
think for if you have a megawatt
charging station and if you have the
electrical architecture that can take
that and the right battery technology
then you can charge 3 400 kilometers
range in 5 minutes and you've heard BYD
and few others talk about it which means
the ecosystem for the high charge has to
be there you need to have new vehicles
with the new electrical architecture and
the battery technology and it's making
progress as we've seen over the last 10
years. If that comes now, the paradigm
has shifted, right? Do you really have
range anxiety? If you can charge your
car to 3 400 km in 5 minutes, you're
okay. So, do I need as big a battery as
I have today? Not really.
>> So, I'm not going to spend $8,000 for a
battery if I'm the car manufacturer. So,
that will shift or pivot the thinking
completely of EV penetration, right?
That's why we at Magna have always been
saying the penetration might be slow and
it's not coming at the rate that
everybody expected. And surprisingly, if
you go back look at Magna 5, 6, 7 years
ago, Tim, I don't know if I told you
this, but we said by 2030,
there will be 30% EV penetration
globally.
>> This was dramatically lower than
everybody else's.
>> Yes.
>> Predictions.
>> Yes. and and and we were called names
which I will not repeat here but it's
like too conservative
>> hater did you get I mean you were proven
maybe even
uh ambitious now in hindsight right do
you did you get a bunch of a bunch of
apology letters do you emails from
people
>> no I wish but they they're now saying is
like really you think it's going to be
30 we don't think so it's going to be 25
okay fine
the whole idea being here is that you
know the EV is a sustainable trend,
right? it it's going to happen and
because of some of the reasons I gave
you
>> it just you have to really invest where
you can differentiate and
that's what the industry is going
through is like
>> how do you consolidate where do you
really put money where you need to or
where what do you have to invest in
until you differentiate you just don't
you know go invest in everything
we reached out to Mr. A spokesperson
said the main issues constraining the
company's working capital were the
market pressures impacting the entire
automotive industry along with lower
production volumes during the past year.
As Kodigiri tries to navigate uncertain
forecasts, he also is keeping an eye on
the rising Chinese automotive industry.
>> We do believe in the long run Chinese
are going to be taking a share, right?
To what extent who knows, but they will
play a role. So, what can US automakers
learn from China? That's next.
The old way of the automotive industry,
and we kind of alluded to this earlier,
is to to grow sales, to grow share. The
idea was you had to have new sheet
metal, new cars on the lot. And really
maybe what we're seeing now is there's
new ways to make money in the industry
whether it's through the digitalization
of the experience or the ride or
whatnot. And you are in the North
America industry which because of trade
protection um has not seen the influx of
Chinese competitors into the US yet. But
you are seeing kind of the rise of these
electric car companies in China really
displacing the the western giants
concerns about Europe. uh where do you
see yourself playing here in the next
few years as we talk about where you
make your investments and how you kind
of straddle that? I
>> I think it's a combination Tim like
going back to my example of how we
doubled our company in the last 20 years
while the volumes were flattish in North
America. One of the ways we did it by
staying focused on the products that we
can differentiate and increase the
content that's one and we had our
footprint in Europe and over these 20
years you saw the influx of the European
OEMs into the North American market. So
we had our content and share there. And
if you look at China, we started off uh
primarily going to China to support our
existing customers which were you know
the German and the Detroit 3. But as of
last year uh we are about 5.5 billion in
sales in China
>> and about 65% of that is with Chinese
OEMs.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. And we continue to grow. Last
year I think we grew at 15% uh you know
in China. So
>> which by the way this is my favorite
trade war fact right now. I just want to
put a fine point on this for our
listeners. People think oh China is
becoming entirely self-reliant. You're
seeing huge increases in your sales to
China.
>> Yeah. No the interesting thing for us is
like we make in China for China.
>> Mhm.
>> Right.
>> Build where build where you sell.
>> Build where we sell. Right. And that
applies not just to China, it's pretty
much everywhere, right? Whether it's
North America or Europe,
>> it was the only the old axiom of of the
automotive industry. I mean, it goes
back to the Ford days. That was kind of
the idea, right? A and and if you sit
back and think about it just like you
know we were with the Europeans and when
they came to North America we came with
them and we are participating with the
Chinese in China right now the Cherry
the J the BYDs the shopangs and all of
these people and you know as they come
to the different parts of the world we
are already in their ecosystem we are
partners right and that's one way to
continue to grow but we are learning
from that too uh how do they design what
is their design cycle, how are they
thinking about it and we are able to
bring some of those learnings to other
parts of the world and you know we do
believe in the long run Chinese are
going to be taking a share right to what
extent who knows but they will play a
role.
>> I want to talk to you about what we have
to look forward to because even though
there's this deceleration in uh in the
growth of EVs it it feels like cars are
changing faster now than at any point
since the model T. I mean, I really
believe that and I've experienced it
firsthand.
Given all the
>> You were there at the Model T. Is that
what you're trying to say?
>> That's right. I was. I'm a vampire.
I'm a vampire elf. I'm immortal. So
given all the headwinds and the
opportunities that we're talking about
for EVs, is there a part or a component
or a subasssembly
of the vehicle where use the opportunity
for for Magna to, you know, move into to
add value? Where do you want to go? What
when you're given this once in a
generation opportunity?
>> Yeah, great question. And we we are
really excited about it, right? The the
the good thing is there is 80% roughly
of what Magna provides
you need in any car whether it's EV or
electric or hydrogen or whatever it is
>> like mirrors and seats and all that
>> mirrors and seats and structures and you
know all all the things that go with it
right
uh in the powertrain business we
prided ourselves in the all-wheel drive
four-wheel drive the
specialtity is not just making the
product about how it functions, right?
Whether it's torque vectoring and the
safety that it provides, the integration
and so on.
So when you bring all of those drivable
functions into an EV, it's not just
putting a motor and an inverter
together. It's how the vehicle behaves
when you have this E drive in place.
That's what we are able to bring
together. So that's the exciting part
for that business how we can play and
one of our core business where we make
structures for vehicle right whether
it's Apillars or B-pillars or doors or
floor or you know the frame for the
chassis engine cradles all of that stuff
it's a very core business for Magna
doesn't matter what material steel
aluminum you know uh composite plastic
anything
and if you sit back and look at that
that content will be there no matter
what. So higher content per vehicle,
better addressable market, lot of
agnostic products that will go on any
vehicle, doesn't matter how it's
powered. That's the exciting part for
Magna looking forward. So you can get a
bigger part of the pie even though the
vehicle is simplifying and you know we
all know we have a this title wave of
sub $30,000 EVs coming whether or not
the Chinese are allowed into the
American market or not.
>> Absolutely. And also to add to it is
with the different systems that we've
been able to work with over the last 65
years with OEMs and internally and if
you know we also assemble cars for OEMs.
So there is that system knowledge for us
to go and tell them that hey you're
doing this you know battery enclosure
you're doing this floor here is some of
the commonality that I can bring
together and eliminate different things
right so it goes back to the system
integration that we are seeing and
learning from the rest of the world but
internally of our tribal knowledge over
the last 60 years we believe that's also
a differentiator
>> right I mean magna for long had this
dream of being almost a final assembly
kind of operator almost like a Foxcon of
the auto industry. But uh I look at
Silicon Valley now and Whimo San
Francisco where I am and I'm seeing them
everywhere and you're working with them
to outfit it self-driving cars at an
Arizona factory, right? You're uh
helping I guess the final integration
putting in the sensors and whatnot.
>> That's correct.
>> So is this we talked I mean you and I
have talked for years about autonomous
vehicles, robot cars. Is the driverless
car hype finally becoming real?
I I go back again to not trying to give
a penetration rate, but I think uh I
I've always said like assisted driving
has long ways to go, right? I mean, just
imagine
>> the comfort, convenience, and safety
that these features are providing and
there is a long ways to go in terms of
content and penetration there. Uh I I
still believe the autonomous is uh from
a technological perspective is there. we
got to get through you know the 99.99%
reliability and acceptance of people
>> because the expectation of uh safety and
reliability is different even much
higher than what you would expect from a
human right with all those things I
believe the first opportunity is in a
more planned uh zoned uh areas and you
know after that it continues just like
anything right the continuous
improvement and at some point it becomes
very noticeable and uh gets to be
exponential rather than linear. I don't
think we have hit that point yet.
>> Yeah, Swami such a great chance to chat
with you here. Maybe we'll have you back
in the future to talk about flying cars.
Who knows what's out there.
>> No, I appreciate it guys and thanks for
keeping me on track and not letting me
use a lot of car talk and acronyms. When
we come back, Mims and I break down what
we just heard from Magna CEO Swami
Kodigiri. Stay with us.
[Music]
So, Mims, what do you think? It's it
seems like a very bleak picture that
Swami uh paints here of the automotive
industry. Not just tough, but really
tough. Four-dimensional chest, I think I
think is the term.
>> Yeah. Whenever somebody starts talking
about four-dimensional chess, I worry
that all their trend lines and their
internal projections are just down and
to the right and they're like, "Oh, but
in the long run, this is going to pay
off for us." It does seem like there's
this crazy transition that they're going
through. It's not just that EVs are
coming, it's that everyone guessed wrong
about how fast they're going to arrive.
And he's the guy who has to plan two
years from now,
>> right? Everybody guessed wrong except
him. I mean, he was pretty close to
being more realistic about what it was
going to be, but he's really thinking
about how to make the the parts that go
into the guts of the car, how to do that
more efficiently and instead of re
literally reinventing the wheel every
time, right? It made me optimistic oddly
because he was willing to allude to the
fact that these future vehicles are
simpler and so to remain nimble to play
that 4D chess he is going to assemble
more of these vehicles and more of the
vehicle will be standard and that's
already what he says is making Chinese
car manufacturers so much more nimble.
So, it makes me think that whatever the
special sauce is that has allowed these
Chinese manufacturers to offer these,
you know, $20,000
excellent EVs is is is coming to
America, is coming to the world. It's
not like China has a monopoly on this.
And he's going to help facilitate that
partly from his learnings in China. That
was fascinating, too.
>> Well, you know, it's interesting. That's
how, you know, Toyota made its way into
the US. And one of the things that
General Motors did was they set up a
kind of a factory to work together to to
to learn how to the Japanese learned how
to work with US workers and the the
Americans learned the Japanese way of
making cars. But, you know, it's
interesting you bring up this this idea
of of him of Magna in China learning
from these Chinese upstarts and how
that's could spread. But the challenge
is the western automakers and the
systems in place makes it very hard to
put those learnings into effect with his
customers. So that'll be interesting.
>> Yeah, I love that he's the guy who's
simultaneously
trying to bring us into the EV future
and he is the primary enabler of
folks who are like, I just want three
tons of American steel. like give me my
Ford F-150 when like when GM says we're
gonna because this just happened. We're
gonna stop this factory where we're
gonna make EVs and instead we're going
to make V8 engines there for trucks.
He's got to be involved in those
discussions. And so this this split in
mindset
and and this division between Americans
desires on the one hand for EVs and on
the other hand for
you know our eternal love for gas
guzzlers. He's got to serve both those
markets right now.
Yeah. He's better positioned than some
big suppliers out there in part because
a huge percentage of the business is not
uh what they call powertrain with the
powertrain. They're not dealing with the
they're not sell they're not in engines.
They're not in the motors. They are they
have a part of the business that's in
motors, but that the bulk of the
business is seats and and mirrors and
and stuff in the car. And so no matter
who the winner is in the future, whether
it's electric cars or gas powered cars
or uh robot cars, you still need seats,
right? And you you still want to have a
comfortable seat. And the seat race is
super competitive as well. You want the
coolest seat out there, right? You want
one that you can it's got like 20
different positionings for your back,
you know, heats your bum. Uh you you
know, maybe uh cools it in the summer. I
mean, especially
>> I mean, I think
>> Americans age.
>> The special edition of Bold Names, where
we go deep on seats.
>> Seat talk.
>> America's aging like everywhere else.
Seats matter, y'all. Yeah. Hold on to
your butts.
And that's bold names. Our producer is
Danny Lewis. Michael Laval and Jessica
Fenton are our sound designers. Jessica
also wrote our theme music. Our
supervising producer is Katherine
Milsop. Our development producer is
Aisha Al-Muslim.
Scott Saloway and Chris Zinsley are the
deputy editors and Fana Patterson is the
Wall Street Journal's head of news
audio. For even more, check out our
columns on wsj.com. We've linked them in
the show notes. I'm Tim Higgins and I'm
Christopher Mims. Thanks for listening.
[Music]